# Introduction 
Try to understand the concepts of this document before moving to any other topics.

## Concurrency vs Parallelism

**Concurrency:** When a single-core CPU is responsible for multiple tasks, it will pick up task 1 and complete some work then drop it to pick up task 2 to 
complete some work. A singe-core CPU can only do or complete one task at a time. 
> yes the word concurrent means doing many things at once, but the english definition does not apply here.

**Parallelism:** Parallelism can only happen when there are more than CPU core. For example CPU 1 can work on task 1 while CPU 2 can work on task 2, these two
CPUs can work at the same time on different tasks.
> With more CPUs we can now split our work into smaller parts called threads.




“Concurrency is about dealing with many things at once, parallelism is about doing many things at once. 
Concurrency is a way to structure things so you can maybe use parallelism to do a better job.”

Rob Pike


## Threads vs queues

**Main Thread:** Every program launches with at least one thread, this is known as the main thread. The main thread will exists for the lifetime
of the application.
> You applications UI must take place on the main thread ALL of the time. Any UI content placed on an alternative thread can result in a crash.

Swift allows us to create multiple threads when we want, it is uncommon to create them because it generated a lot of complexity. Creating 40 threads with
only 4 CPU cores, will result in the system swapping them AKA Context Switching. 

**Context Switching:** Swapping threads comes at a cost: The system has to store the data that the thread was using and remember how far it has progressed
before allowing another thread to run. The cost of thread switching grows higher and higher when the thread count excceds the number of available CPU cores.
A result of this is known as thread explosion. 


Queues
**Queues:** Queues are similar to real life situation, think waiting in a line at the grocercy store or first in first out situation. Work will start
in the order it was added to the queue UNLESS we specify that somthing has a high or low priority. 

**Serial Queues:** When queues remove one piece of work from the front of the queue and completes it before procceding to the next piece of work. They do have
concurrent capabilities (in the literal sense) to remove and execute multiple pieces of work at the same time. 


**Threads are the individual slices of a program that do pieces of work, whereas queues are like pipelines of execution where
we can request that work be done at some point.**


