# Publishers & Subscribers

## Publisher 
Publishes events that includes values of interests. 

## Sudcribers
Attatches/Subcribes to a publisher and receaves the values that the publisher admitts.


## How these two work together

1. The subscribe indicates that it wants to subscribe to the publisher.
2. The publisher then gives a subscription to the subscriber.
3. Now the subscriber can request values from the subscriber.
4. The publisher sends values to the subscriber.
5. the publisher will continue to send values to the subscriber until it sends a completion.


> Publishers and Subscribers are defined in protocols

## Publisher Protocol

- The publisher protocol defines an output associated type for the types of values a publisher will produce.
it also produces an associated type for the type of errors it may/never emmit, if its garuntted to never admit an error.

- A subscriber calls subscribe on a publisher to attatch to it, the implementation of subscribe will call recieve subscriber
to create the subscription

> Subscriber output and error types must be the same

## Subscriber Protocol
- Defines an input associated type for the type of values the subscriber will recieve. nIt must match the output from the 
publisher.
- It also defines a failure type or never if there cant be errors.
- If there is a failure type it must match the publishers failure type.
- The publisher calls recieve subscription on the subscriber to give it the subscription
- Then the publisher calls recieve on the sunbscriber to send it a new value.
- When complete the publisher calls recieve completion on the subscriber to tell it that it has finished producing values 
either normally or due to an error. 


## Subscription Protocol
- Defines the connection between the publisher and the subscriber.
- A subscriber calls request to indicate that it is willing to recieve more values up to a max number or it can specify
that it is willing to recieve an unlimited number of values. This is known as backpressure management. 

